# Architecture Review Reflection

## Feedback and Decisions
_Based upon your notes from the technical review, synthesize the feedback you received addressing your key questions. How do you plan to incorporate it going forward? What new questions did you generate?_

Based upon notes from the technical review, we've heavily prioritized the recognition part of our code such that the hand detection and tracking has already been developed. A lot of feedback related to the difficulty of capturing minute differences between gestures in ASL, so we have also done research into using just the ASL alphabet or semaphores as an executable backup plan. Currently, a user-configurable thresholding system is built into the classification code such that we can precisely calibrate our hand detection and tracking each time in order to maximize the potential for success. One area that we still have questions in is the implementation of the ML aspect itself as we are not entirely sure which ML methodology would work best in this instance. Currently, our best approach for this is using a support vector machine (SVM) training method, but we do still have some questions as to whether this is the best approach. More research is needed in this area specifically.

Moving forward, our first priority was to build out the recognition aspect of the code architecture that can accurately identify hands and detect their gestures in real-time. Along with this, we've developed a functional text to speech block that can convert ASL symbols as text from the classification program into speech that the computer can read aloud. As a result, the majority of our remaining time will be spent implementing the ML component of the program that can classify recognized hand gestures into the appropriate ASL symbol and then feed that result into the text to speech component.

## Review Process Reflection
_How did the review go? Did you get answers to your key questions? Did you provide too much/too little context for your audience? Did you stick closely to your planned agenda, or did you discover new things during the discussion that made you change your plans? What could you do next time to have an even more effective technical review?_

The review went incredibly well with answers to most of our key questions and good response from our peers. While I think we could have provided more context on our code architecture and how we planned to accomplish the ASL real-time translation, the architecture review did happen pretty early on in our development process. We stuck pretty closely to our agenda, but did spend some time entertaining alternatives to our core proposal in the form of the ASL alphabet and semaphore translators. Approaches next time will most likely involve a more robust explanation of our proposed code architecture, the attendance of all of our team members, and a brief discussion of alternatives that we've already explore such that we can hold a deeper discussion on the effectiveness of our approach and whether we should seriously consider alternatives.

